>> Woodruff: THE U.S. AND ITS
ALLIES PREPARE FOR A NEW PHASE
IN THE CAMPAIGN TO DISMANTLE IN
THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP IN IRAQ
AND SYRIA.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
GWEN IFILL IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS MONDAY, THE
BALTIMORE RAVENS KICKED RAY RICE
OFF THE TEAM AND THE N.F.L.
SUSPENDED HIM INDEFINITELY AFTER
NEW VIDEO OF THE STAR RUNNING
BACK PUNCHING HIS THEN-FIANCE
WAS RELEASED.
PLUS, IN COLORADO, HOW DISPUTES
OVER FRACKING FOR OIL AND GAS
ARE FUELING DEEP POLITICAL
DIVIDES.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: A CHILLING NEW
WARNING TODAY ON THE EBOLA
OUTBREAK IN WEST AFRICA.
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
PROJECTED AN EXPONENTIAL
INCREASE IN NEW CASES.
IN A STATEMENT, THE U.N. AGENCY
SAID:
MANY THOUSANDS OF NEW CASES ARE
EXPECTED IN LIBERIA OVER THE
COMING THREE WEEKS.
MORE THAN HALF OF ALL THE CASES
SO FAR HAVE BEEN IN LIBERIA.
THE U.S. MILITARY NOW PLANS TO
ASSIST SETTING UP ISOLATION
UNITS AND PROVIDING SECURITY.
HUNDREDS OF AMERICAN CHILDREN IN
TEN STATES HAVE FALLEN ILL WITH
A SEVERE RESPIRATORY IN RECENT
WEEKS.
THE CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL
REPORTS NEARLY 500 KIDS WERE SIN
KANSAS CITY AND MANY REQUIRED
INTENSIVE CARE.
SYMPTOMS CAN INCLUDE HEAVY
COUGHING, FEVER AND ASTHMA-LIKE
BREATHING TROUBLE.
IN UKRAINE, THE CEASE-FIRE
BETWEEN GOVERNMENT FORCES AND
REBELS APPEARED TO BE HOLDING
AFTER SPORADIC VIOLATIONS OVER
THE WEEKEND.
THAT WORD CAME AS PRESIDENT
PETRO POROSHENKO MADE A SURPRISE
VISIT TO MARIUPOL.
REBEL FORCES HAVE MOVED CLOSE TO
THE COASTAL CITY, BUT IN A
SPEECH, POROSHENKO DECLARED IT
WILL STAY UKRAINIAN.
>> ( translated ): WE ARE READY
TO DEFEND OUR STATE.
OUR ARMED FORCES, NATIONAL
GUARD, BORDER GUARDS.
KEEP THE POWDER DRY.
BUT SPEAKING OF POLITICAL
DECISIONS, WE WILL DO ALL WE CAN
FOR A PROCESS OF A PEACEFUL
SETTLEMENT.
>> Woodruff: THE UKRAINIAN
PRESIDENT SAID ALSO THAT NEARLY
1,200 PRISONERS-OF-WAR HAVE BEEN
RELEASED BY THE REBELS UNDER THE
CEASE-FIRE.
NIGERIS'A MILITARY REPORTED
TODAY IT HAS RECAPTURED A KEY
TOWN FROM ISLAMIST MILITANTS OF
BOKO HARAM.
A SENIOUR OFFICIAL SAID THE
GOVERNMENT FORCES TOOK BACK THE
TOWN OF BAM, IN NORTHEAST BORNO
STATE, AND BLOCKED THE MILITANTS
ADVANCE TOWARD THE STATE
CAPITAL.
OVER THE WEEKEND, HOWEVER, BOKO
HARAM CAPTURED SEVERAL OTHER
TOWNS.
THE IRAQI PARLIAMENT TOOK A
GIANT STEP THIS EVENING TOWARD
PUTTING A FUNCTIONING GOVERNMENT
IN PLACE.
LAWMAKER OFFICIALLY NAMED HAIDER
AL-ABADI AS PRIME MINISTER AND
APPROVED MOST OF A NEW CABINET.
ABADI ASKED FOR ANOTHER WEEK TO
FILL THE KEY SECURITY POSTS OF
DEFENSE AND INTERIOR MINISTERS.
THE GOAL IS A MORE INCLUSIVE
GOVERNMENT TO BRING SUNNIS BACK
INTO THE FOLD.
RESCUERS IN INDIA AND PAKISTAN
LABORED TODAY TO SAVE THOUSANDS
OF PEOPLE TRAPPED BY FLOODING.
MORE THAN 320 HAVE DIED IN THE
DISASTER, ACROSS THE DIVIDED
TERRITORY OF KASHMIR AND
NORTHERN AND EASTERN PAKISTAN.
TODAY, INDIAN AIR FORCE
HELICOPTERS AIRLIFTED MORE
PEOPLE TO SAFETY.
RESIDENTS IN THE MAIN CITY OF
SRINAGAR WADED THROUGH FLOODING
STREETS OVER THE WEEKEND WITH
CATTLE AND BELONGINGS, WAITING
TO BE RESCUED.
>> FROM THE SECOND HALF OF
YESTERDAY WE STARTED FOCUSSING
OVER THE SRINAGAR CITY WHERE THE
WATER LEVEL HAS BEEN
CONTINUOUSLY RISING AND IT HAS
RISEN UP TO A CONSIDERABLE
LEVEL, ALMOST UP TO THE SECOND
FLOOR, AND PEOPLE ARE STRANDED
ON ROOFTOPS.
>> Woodruff: THE DISASTER HAS
PUT TENSIONS BETWEEN THE TWO
COUNTRIES ON HOLD, AT LEAST
TEMPORARILY.
THE INDIAN AND PAKISTANI PRIME
MINISTERS OFFERED SUNDAY
ASSIST EACH OTHER IN RELIEF
EFFORTS.
WIDESPREAD THUNDERSTORMS FROM
THE REMNANTS OF HURRICANE
NORBERT SPARKED FLASH FLOODING
IN PARTS OF ARIZONA THIS
MORNING.
IN PHOENIX, A RECORD BREAKING
THREE INCHES OF RAIN FELL BY
DAYBREAK.
WREAKING HAVOC ON THE MORNING
COMMUTE.
PORTIONS OF MAJOR INTERSTATES
WERE CLOSED AND DOZENS OF
VEHICLES LAY STALLED IN WINDOW-
HIGH WATER.
THE STORM ALSO TRIGGERED
FLOODING IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
OVER THE WEEKEND.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST
NEARLY 26 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
17,111; THE NASDAQ ROSE NINE
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 4,592; AND
THE S&P 500 SLIPPED SIX TO
FINISH 2,0001.
AND SOME HAPPY NEWS THIS EVENING
FROM THE BRITISH ROYAL FAMILY.
PRINCE WILLIAM AND THE DUCHESS
OF CAMBRIDGE ARE EXPECTING A
SECOND CHILD.
>> HE HAD NOT WANTED THE WORLD
TO KNOW SO SOON BUT PRINCE
WILLIAM HAD NO CHOICE.
KATE SHOULD HAVE BEEN WITH HIM
IN OXFORD TODAY BUT A BOUT OF
SEVERE MORNING SICKNESS KEPT HER
AT HOME AND FORCED HIM TO
APPROVE THE ANNOUNCEMENT THAT
THEY HAVE ANOTHER CHILD ON THE
WAY.
>> CONGRATULATIONS.
HOW'S KATE FEELING?
>> SHE'S HAD A FEW DAYS BUT IT'S
GREAT NEWS.
EARLY DAYS.
SHE'LL FEEL BETTER.
>> KATE HASN'T BEEN SEEN IN
PUBLIC SINCE THE WORLD WAR I
COMMEMORATION IN THE TOWER OF
LONDON LAST MONTH.
EMEN A HER FIRST
PREGNANCY ALSO HAD TO BE BROUGHT
FORWARD.
ON THAT OCCASION, MORNING
SICKNESS WAS SO SEVERE, SHE WAS
TAKE TON THE HOSPITAL.
PRINCE GEORGE, NOW ONE, WAS BORN
SEVEN MONTHS LATER.
TODAY, IT WAS CONFIRMED HE WILL
HAVE A BROTHER OR SISTER BY NEXT
SPRING.
>> ON BEHALF OF THE WHOLE
COUNTRY, I'M SURE THE HOUSE WILL
WANT TO JOIN ME IN
CONGRATULATIONS.
>> SO AS HE WAS GREETED BY A
SMALL WELL-WISHER TODAY, PRINCE
WILLIAM'S THOUGHTS WERE VERY
MUCH WITH HIS OWN FAMILY AND THE
WIFE HE WAS FORCED TO LEAVE AT
HOME.
>> Woodruff: THE BABY WILL BE
FOURTH IN LINE TO THE THROWN
BEHIND PRINCE CHARLES, PRINCE
WILLIAM AND PRINCE GEORGE.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR.
WHAT THE U.S. AND ITS ALLIES CAN
DO TO DESTROY THE ISLAMIC STATE
GROUP.
WHY POLITICIANS AREN'T TALKING
ABOUT IMMIGRATION BEFORE
NOVEMBER'S ELECTIONS.
DEEP POLITICAL DIVIDES OVER
FRACKING FOR OIL AND GAS IN
COLORADO.
AND THE N.F.L. SUSPENDS RUNNING
BACK RAY RICE INDEFINITELY FOR
>> Woodruff: NOW TO THE NEXT
PHASE FOR THE UNITED STATES AND
PARTNERS IN GOING AFTER THE
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP.
MANY IN THE REGION AND THIS
COUNTY ARE ANXIOUSLY AWAITING
MORE DETAILS AS THE PRESIDENT
PREPARES FOR A NATIONAL ADDRESS
WEDNESDAY ON HIS STRATEGY IN
DEALING WITH THE MILITANT GROUP
THAT HAS BROUGHT DEATH AND
DESTRUCTION TO LARGE SWATHS OF
IRAQ AND SYRIA.
>> WE ARE GOING TO
SYSTEMATICALLY DEGRADE THEIR
CAPABILITIES, WE'RE GOING SHRINK
THE TERRITORY THAT THEY CONTROL
AND ULTIMATELY WE'RE GOING TO
DEFEAT THEM.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT
OUTLINED A MULTI-STEP CAMPAIGN
IN A LENGTHY INTERVIEW SEEN
SUNDAY ON NBC.
IT ELABORATED ON HIS STATEMENT
LAST WEEK IN ESTONIA, REGARDING
THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP, ALSO
KNOWN AS ISIL.
>> THE BOTTOM LINE IS THIS: OUR
OBJECTIVE IS CLEAR, AND THAT IS
TO DEGRADE AND DESTROY ISIL SO
IT IS NO LONGER A THREAT, NOT
JUST TO IRAQ, BUT ALSO TO THE
REGION AND TO THE UNITED STATES.
>> Woodruff: IT WAS WIDELY-
REPORTED TODAY THAT THE
PRESIDENT'S EXPANDED AIR
OFFENSIVE COULD LAST YEARS.
BUT IN THE NBC INTERVIEW, HE
AGAIN MADE CLEAR THE EFFORT
WON'T INCLUDE COMBAT TROOPS.
>> WE'RE NOT LOOKING AT SENDING
A HUNDRED THOUSAND AMERICA
TROOPS.
WE ARE GOING TO BE, AS PART OF
AN INTERNATIONAL COALITION,
CARRYING OUT AIR STRIKES IN
SUPPORT OF WORK ON THE GROUND OF
IRAQI TROOPS, KURDISH TROOPS, WE
ARE GOING TO BE HELPING TO PUT
TOGETHER A PLAN FOR THEM SO THEY
CAN START RETAKING TERRITORY
THAT ISIL HAD TAKEN OVER.
>> Woodruff: AIR STRIKES HAVE
ALREADY BEEN UNDER WAY FOR FOUR
WEEKS NEARLY 150 TO DATE.
THEY'VE HELPED KURDISH FORCES,
PLUS IRAQI TROOPS AND IRANIAN-
BACKED SHIITE MILITIA, PUSH BACK
THE SUNNI EXTREMISTS OF ISLAMIC
STATE.
OVER THE WEEKEND, THE AIR
CAMPAIGN REACHED INTO ANBAR
PROVINCE, STRIKING TARGETS
AROUND HADITHA DAM.
THE PREDOMINANTLY SUNNI REGION
WEST OF BAGHDAD IS LARGELY UNDER
ISLAMIC STATE CONTROL.
IT REMAINED UNCLEAR IF AN
EXPANDED AIR WAR WOULD EXTEND
INTO SYRIA.
GENERAL MARTIN DEMPSEY, CHAIRMAN
OF THE JOINT CHIEFS, HAS SAID
ANY MOVE TO DESTROY THE
MILITANTS WOULD ALSO MEAN
STRIKES IN SYRIA, WHERE THEY ARE
STRONGEST.
JUST TEN DAYS AGO, AT A WHITE
HOUSE NEWS CONFERENCE, MR. OBAMA
SAID THERE WAS NO STRATEGY YET
ON THAT QUESTION.
HE DID NOT ADDRESS THAT POINT
DIRECTLY IN HIS NBC INTERVIEW,
BUT HE DID SAY IT'S ESSENTIAL
FOR MAJORITY SUNNI STATES IN THE
REGION TO STEP UP.
>> NOT JUST SAUDI ARABIA BUT OUR
PARTNERS LIKE JORDAN, UNITED
ARAB EMIRATES, TURKEY, THEY NEED
TO BE INVOLVED.
THIS IS THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE DANGERS THAT ARE POSED ARE
MORE DIRECTED AT THEM RIGHT NOW
THEN AT US, AND THE GOOD NEWS IS
I THINK FOR PERHAPS FOR THE
FIRST TIME YOU HAVE ABSOLUTE
CLARITY THAT THE PROBLEM FOR
SUNNI STATES IN THE REGION, MANY
OF WHOM ARE OUR ALLIES, IT'S NOT
SIMPLY IRAN, IT IS NOT SIMPLY A
SUNNI-SHIA ISSUE.
>> Woodruff: TO THAT END,
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE HAGEL WAS
IN TURKEY TODAY, ONE OF THE TEN
NATO NATIONS COMMITTED TO THE
SO-CALLED CORE COALITION AGAINST
THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP.
IT WAS ALSO ANNOUNCED THAT
SECRETARY OF STATE KERRY WILL
LEAVE TOMORROW FOR THE REGION.
AND A TWO DAY MEETING OF THE
ARAB LEAGUE IN CAIRO ENDED
TODAY, WITH THE GROUP URGING
MEMBERS TO CONFRONT THE ISLAMIC
STATE.
THE LEAGUE'S SECRETARY GENERAL
IS NABIL AL-ARABY.
>> ( translated ): WHAT IS
HAPPENING IN IRAQ IS A THREAT OF
A TERRORIST ORGANIZATION.
THAT IS NOT JUST DEFYING THE
STATE BUT THREATENS ITS
EXISTENCE AND THE EXISTENCE OF
OTHER COUNTRIES.
THIS TERRORIST ORGANIZATION
REPRESENTS ALL FORMS OF TYRANNY,
OPPRESSION AND TERROR.
IT'S WORKING TO DIVIDE THE
SOCIAL STRUCTURE OF THE REGION.
>> Woodruff: BACK IN WASHINGTON,
PRESIDENT OBAMA BEGINS
CONSULTING CONGRESSIONAL LEADERS
TOMORROW.
HE PLANS TO PRESENT THE FULL
STRATEGY TO THE NATION, IN A
SPEECH ON WEDNESDAY.
SO CAN THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP
BE DESTROYED AND DEGRADED AS
PRESIDENT OBAMA LAID OUT?
FOR THAT, WE GET THREE VIEWS.
FEISAL ISTRABADI WAS IRAQ'S
DEPUTY AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED
NATIONS FROM 2004 TO 2007.
HE'S NOW A PROFESSOR OF
INTERNATIONAL LAW AND DIPLOMACY
AT INDIANA UNIVERSITY.
FREDERIC WEHREY IS A FORMER U.S.
AIR FORCE OFFICER WHO SERVED IN
AND AROUND THE MIDDLE EAST,
INCLUDING IN IRAQ.
HE'S NOW AT THE CARNEGIE
ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL
PEACE.
AND HUSSEIN IBISH IS A SENIOR
FELLOW ON THE AMERICAN TASK
FORCE ON PALESTINE WHO WRITES
EXTENSIVELY ON MIDEAST ISSUES.
WE WELCOME ALL THREE OF YOU BACK
TO THE PROGRAM.
I'M GOING TO START WITH YOU,
FEISAL ISTRABADI.
IS IT REALISTIC TO SAY THAT THE
U.S. OR ANYONE CAN DESTROY THE
ISLAMIC STATE?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT -- I MEAN,
YOU OBVIOUSLY CAN'T DESTROY AN
IDEOLOGY, BUT YOU CAN GO AFTER
THE INDU SIGNED
UP FOR THIS IDEOLOGY AND WHO
HAVE TAKEN THE FIELD.
SO, YES, I THINK YOU CAN BECAUSE
THEY HAVE -- THEY REPRESENT A
VERY SMALL MINORITY OF THE
POPULATIONS OF THE COUNTRIES
THAT THEY ARE IN THE MIDST OF.
THERE IS A RISING CONSENSUS
AMONGST ALL THE COUNTRIES OF THE
REGION AND THE PEOPLES OF THE
REGION THAT THESE PEOPLE
REPRESENT A DIRECT THREAT IN THE
REGION AND INTERNATIONALLY, AND
I THINK THAT AN APPROPRIATE
RESPONSE BY THE COUNTRIESS OF TE
REGION IN COORDINATION WITH THE
UNITED STATES AND N.A.T.O.
ALLIES CAN AND MUST RESULT --
INDEED, IT DOESN'T SEEM TO ME WE
HAVE MUST HAVEO A CHOICE -- IN
DEFEAT OF THESE PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: FREDERIC WEHREY?
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT A HYBRID
ARY FORCE SPI ACROSS
TERRITORIES, SO YOU CAN RESTRAIN
THAT CAPABILITY.
BUT UNDERCUTTING THIS MOVEMENT'S
IDEOLOGY IS GOING TO BE A
LONG-TERM, PERHAPS EVEN
GENERATIONAL PROCESS.
YOU'RE REALLY TALKING ABOUT
REMOVING A CANCER FROM A REGION
AND UNDERCUT THAT IDEOLOGY.
>> Woodruff: HUSSEIN IBISH.
I LIKE THAT ANALOGY.
IT IS A CANCER.
SIT A CANCER THAT'S METASTASIZED
INTO IRAQ AND IT'S MORE DOABLE
TO DEGRADE THEM TO A POINTY
THEY'RE A NUISANCE AND PROBLEM
IN IRAQ.
GOING AFTER THE STRONG HOLD
WHERE THEY ARE DUG IN WHERE THEY
ARE RUNNING WHAT AMOUNTS TO A
MINISTATE IN SIR  .   -- IN SYR.
IT'S A STATE THAT POSITS ITSELF
AS A ALTERNATIVE NOT TO SYRIA OR
IRAQ BUT THE WHOLE SYSTEM.
IT'S A THREAT TO THE
INTERNATIONAL STRUCTURE AS WE'VE
KNOWN IT FOR HUNDREDS OF YEARS.
>> Woodruff: SO THE PRESIDENT
IS TALKING ABOUT A STAGED
APPROACH HERE.
DOES THAT MAKE SENSE?
WE ASSUME HE TALKS ABOUT
STARTING IN IRAQ.
>> I THINK THAT'S ESSENTIAL.
IRAQ GIVES YOU THE OPPORTUNITY
TO BUILD THE COALITION AND
ESPECIALLY WITH LOCAL FORCES ON
THE GROUND, SUNNI FORCES, SUNNI
TRIBAL FORCES, ANYONE WHO WILL
JOIN THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST
I.S.I.S. WILL BE WELCOME, AND
THEN FROM THERE YOU CAN SEE HOW
IT COULD PRESENT NEW
OPPORTUNITIES IN SYRIA AND
CHANGE THE DYNAMICS IN SYRIA.
>> Woodruff: MR. ISTRABADI,
BACK TO IRAQ, THE PARLIAMENT HAS
NOW SIGNED OFF ON MR. ABADI AS A
NEW PRIME MINISTER.
ARE THE PIECES COMING INTO PLACE
IN IRAQ FOR THIS TO BE A
COOPERATIVE EFFORT BETWEEN THE
U.S., THE IRAQIS, THE KURDS TO
GO AFTER I.S.I.S.?
>> YES, AND, OF COURSE, THE
KURDS ARE IRAQIS AND ARE
PARTICIPATING IN THE GOVERNMENT
AND THE PESHMERGA ARE IRAQI
FORCES PROVIDED FOR IN THE IRAQI
CONSTITUTION.
I THINK WE ARE SEEING THE
BEGINNING OF PIECES FALLING INTO
PLACE.
I THINK, ALTHOUGH IRAQIS HAVE
BEEN OPTIMISTIC OVER THE PAST
ELEVEN YEARS ONLY TO HAVE THEIR
HIGH HOPES DASHED, I THINK MOST
OF US REALIZE THIS MAY WELL BE A
LAST CHANCE TO KEEP OUR COUNTRY
TOGETHER.
WE HAVE TO DO A NUMBER OF THINGS
AT THE SAME TIME, INCLUDING
FIGHTING I.S.I.S. OR I.S.I.L.,
BUT WE ALSO HAVE TO MAKE A
COMPACT THAT ALLOWS US TO LIVE
WITH EACH OTHER IN PEACE AND
CONFRONT MUTUAL ENEMIES.
>> Woodruff: FREDERIC WEHREY,
BUILDING ON THAT, WHEN THE
PRESIDENT SAID A MINUTE AGO
THESE OTHER COUNTRIES NEED TO BE
INVOLVED AND NAMED JORDAN, THE
UAE, TURKEY, WHAT CAN WE LOOK
FOR FROM THESE COUNTRIES BECAUSE
THEY ALL RELATE TO THIS IN VERY
DIFFERENT WAYS.
>> THEY DO, THEY ALLY LINKS TO
IRAQ AND SIR.  I CAN'T I THINK
WE'LL LOOK AT CERTAIN
CAPABILITIES THAT ARE LEVERAGED.
THEY WON'T ALL APPLY MILITARY
POWER TO THE PROBLEMS.
THEY WILL LEVERAGE TRIBAL LINKS
AND TACKLING FINANCES.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU MEAN
LEVERAGING TRIBAL --
>> THEY HAVE LINKAGE AS THAT
STRADDLE THE BORDER BETWEEN
THESE COUNTRIES AND THEY WILL
PROBABLY TRY TONE GAUGE THE
SUNNI TRIBES IN THE COUNTRY TO
PEEL THEM AWAY FROM I.S.I.S.
THROUGH CASH, INCENTIVES.
THEY HAVE EXCELLENT INTELLIGENCE
NETWORKS.
THEY WILL TACKLE THE REFUGEE
PROBLEM, BUT WE SHOULDN'T EXPECT
THEM TO BE SENDING JET IN WITH A
MASSIVE MILITARY COALITION.
>> Woodruff: SO YOU'RE SAYING
IT'S MAINLY A U.S. MILITARY?
>> IN TERMS OF ACTUAL VALUE
ADDED, I DON'T THINK MANY OF THE
COUNTRIES HAVE THE CAPABILITY,
PERHAPS THE UNITED ARAB EMRAPTS
OR TURKEY.
BUT WE'RE TALKING FOR THE
PRECISION CAMPAIGN YOU NEED TO
AVOID COLLATERAL DAMAGE AND GO
AFTER THE KEY LEADERSHIP, YOU'RE
TALKING ABOUT PERHAPS THE U.S.
AND PERHAPS N.A.T.O. COUNTRIES.
>> I THINK THERE HAVE TO BE
BOOTS ON THE GROUND TO REPLACE
I.S.I.L. FIGHTERS WHEN THEY ARE
DEFEATED AND I THINK THAT CAN'T
BE SEC TARN FORCES IN EITHER
IRAQ OR SYRIA, PERCEIVED SE
SECTARIAN FORCES.
IT'S GOT TO COME FROM THE PEOPLE
I.S.I.S. IS CLAIMING TO
REPRESENT AND THEY HAVE TO BE
FLIPPED.
ONE THING COALITION PARTNERS CAN
BRING TO THE TABLE BEYOND THE
MILITARY, LAW ENFORCEMENT AND
FINANCIAL CRACKDOWN IS THE SUNNI
ARAB CREDIBILITY THAT THIS IS
NOT AN ATTACK ON SOON REQUESTS,
THAT THIS IS NOT SHELLING FOR
SECTARIANISM OR IRAN OR SHIITES
OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT, BUT THIS
IS ESSENTIAL FOR ARAB SUNNIS AS
A COLLECTIVE AND LOCAL ARAB
SUNNIS IN IRAQ AND ULTIMATELY
SYRIA AS WELL.
>> Woodruff: YOU BRING UP
SOMETHING I WANT TO TURN TO
FEISAL ISTRABADI AND THIS IS
ASSUMING THIS GETS DONE AND
HOWEVER LONG IT TAKES, WHO WILL
BE IN PLACE TO HOLD THE
SITUATION STABLE AND TO KEEP IT
FROM FALLING APART AGAIN?
WHOSE BOOTS ARE THEY GOING TO
BE?
>> LOOK, YOU CANNOT SAY ON THE
ONE HAND WE SHOULD NOT HAVE
SECTARIAN FORCES IN IRAQ, A
PROPOSITION WITH WHICH I AGREE,
AND THEN ON THE OTHER HAND SAY
BUT THERE NEED TO BE SUNNIS IN
THESE AREAS.
WHAT WE NEED TO DO IS BUILD
INSTITUTIONS OF THE STATE.
UNFORTUNATELY, WE HAVE WASTED
THE LAST EIGHT YEARS, SO WE HAVE
TO BUILD STATE INSTITUTIONS AT
THE SAME TIME THAT WE ARE DOING
THIS WORK.
IT'S GOING TO BE EXTREMELY
DIFFICULT, BUT THIS IS THE
CHALLENGE OF THE NEW PRIME
MINISTER HAS BEFORE HIM TO BUILD
TRULY IRAQI -- AN IRAQI SECURITY
FORCE THAT ALL GROUPS AND SECTS
AND NAS NATIONALITIES THAT
CONSTITUTE IRAQ BUY INTO.
IF NOT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE
DE FACTO AND PERHAPS THE
DIVISION OF IRAQ AND IF THAT
HAPPENS WE HAVE A TRUE PANDORA'S
BOX IN WHICH IRAQ LOOKS LIKE
SOMALIA.
>> WHAT I AM SAYING TH IS THAT Y
FORCE THAT IS ON THE GROUND THAT
TAKES THE PLACE OF I.S.I.S. HAS
TO HAVE CREDIBILITY WITH THE
LOCAL POPULATION.
THAT'S ESSENTIAL.
>> THAT'S ANOTHER STORY.
I AGREE WITH.
>> Woodruff: FREDERIC WEHREY,
HOW DOES THE U.S. HELP MANAGE OR
OVERSEE ALL THIS ENSURE THE
THINGS HAPPEN THE THREE OF YOU
ARE DESCRIBING.
>> IT'S GOING TO BE VERY SHAKY.
WE KNOW MANY OF THE STATES
COMPETE WITH ONE ANOTHER WITHIN
THE GULF.
TO SAY THERE'S A UNIFIED
BLOCK WITH S A BIT OF A
MISNOMER.
THERE'S A BIT OF A SUNNI COLD
WAR GOING ON RIGHT NOW.
SO IT'S GOING TO BE A VERY
DELICATE TASK.
BUT I THINK MUCH HINGES ON WHAT
GOES ON IN BAGHDAD ITSELF AND
THE ACTIONS THE IRAQI GOVERNMENT
TAKES TOWARD ITS OWN POPULATION.
>> Woodruff: AND IT'S MOVING
FROM ONE PRESIDENT IN THIS
COUNTRY TO THE NEXT ONE.
THE PRESIDENT ALREADY SAID IT'S
GOING TO GO BEYOND HIS TERM
INOFFS.
WE THANK YOU, FREDERIC WEHREY,
HUSSEIN IBISH, FEISAL ISTRABADI.
WE APPRECIATE IT.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AS THE PRESIDENT
CONSIDERS HIS OPTIONS FOR
DEALING WITH THE ISLAMIC STATE.
HE HAS DECIDED TO DELAY TAKING
ACTION ON IMMIGRATION.
JEFFREY BROWN REP O
POLITICAL STORM THAT'S CREATED.
>> Reporter: WITH CONGRESS BACK
FROM SUMMER VACATION, THE
PRESIDENT DREW FIRE FROM BOTH
SIDES FOR DELAYING EXECUTIVE
ACTION ON IMMIGRATION UNTIL
AFTER THE MID-TERM ELECTIONS IN
NOVEMBER.
REPUBLICAN SENATOR JEFF SESSIONS
OF ALABAMA.
>> THE PRESIDENT NOW IS BRAZENLY
REAFFIRMING IN EVEN CLEARER
LANGUAGE THAT HE WILL CARRY OUT
HIS AMNESTY PLAN BUT ONLY AFTER
THE ELECTION IN NOVEMBER.
THIS IS AN ATTEMPT TO PROTECT
HIS DEMOCRATIC SENATE
CANDIDATES.
>> THEY SHOULDN'T TALK ABOUT IT
DURING AN ELECTION?
WELL, WHEN SHOULD ISSUES BE
TALKED ABOUT, GREAT ISSUES
FACING AMERICA, IF NOT DURING
THE ELECTION CYCLE?
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT IS
ALSO TAKING HEAT FROM MEMBERS OF
HIS OWN PARTY.
YESTERDAY, DEMOCRATIC
CONGRESSMAN LUIS GUTIERREZ OF
ILLINOIS SOUNDED A WARNING ON
ABC's "THIS WEEK."
>> PLAYING IT SAFE MIGHT WIN AN
ELECTION.
SOMETIMES YOU LOSE AN ELECTION
ALSO.
IT ALMOST NEVER LEADS TO
FAIRNESS, JUSTICE, AND TO GOOD
PUBLIC POLICY YOU CAN BE PROUD
OF.
>> Woodruff: LAST YEAR, THE
DEMOCRATIC-LED SENATE PASSED ITS
OWN COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION
BILL, BUT IT STALLED IN THE
REPUBLICAN-RUN HOUSE.
IN LATE JUNE, THE PRESIDENT
VOWED TO TAKE EXECUTIVE ACTION
BY SUMMER'S END.
>> IF CONGRESS WILL NOT DO THEIR
JOB, AT LEAST WE CAN DO OURS.
I EXPECT THEIR RECOMMENDATIONS
BEFORE THE END OF SUMMER AND I
INTEND TO ADOPT THOSE
RECOMMENDATIONS WITHOUT FURTHER
DELAY.
>> Reporter: THEN CAME JULY AND
PROTESTS OVER THE FLOOD OF
IMMIGRANT CHILDREN CROSSING INTO
THE U.S.
DETENTION FACILITIES REACHED
FULL CAPACITY, AND WHEN
AUTHORITIES SENT THE OVERFLOW TO
SITES IN NEARBY STATES,
DEMONSTRATIONS BROKE OUT.
>> I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT THE
"T's" ARE CROSSED AND THE "I's"
ARE DOTTED.
YESTERDAY, IN HIS NBC INTERVIEW,
THE PRESIDENT CITED THAT ISSUE
IN EXPLAINING WHY HE'S PUTTING
OFF ANY IMMIGRATION
ANNOUNCEMENT.
>> THIS PROBLEM WITH
UNACCOMPANIED CHILDREN THAT WE
SAW A COUPLE WEEKS AGO, WHERE
YOU HAD FROM CENTRAL AMERICA A
SURGE OF KIDS WHO ARE SHOWING UP
AT THE BORDER, GOT A LOT OF
ATTENTION.
AND A LOT OF AMERICANS STARTED
THINKING, WE'VE GOT THIS
IMMIGRATION CRISIS ON OUR HANDS.
AND WHAT I WANT TO DO IS WHEN I
TAKE EXECUTIVE ACTION, I WANT TO
MAKE SURE THAT IT'S SUSTAINABLE.
>> Reporter: HE SURGE OF MIGRANT
CHILDREN HAS NOW SLOWED, BUT
TODAY, THE ADMINISTRATION
RENEWED ITS REQUEST FOR $1.2
BILLION DOLLARS TO DEAL WITH THE
PROBLEM.
SO HOW COULD THE PRESIDENT'S
DECISION TO DELAY ACTION ON
IMMIGRATION REFORM AFFECT
NOVEMBER'S MIDTERM ELECTIONS?
WE EXPLORE THAT QUESTION WITH:
AMY WALTER, NATIONAL EDITOR OF
THE COOK POLITICAL REPORT.
AND ROBERTO SURO, PROFESSOR IN
THE ANNENBERG SCHOOL FOR
COMMUNICATION AND JOURNALISM AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN
CALIFORNIA.
HE'S ALSO DIRECTOR OF THE TOMAS
RIVERA POLICY INSTITUTE, A
RESEARCH CENTER THAT STUDIES
DEMOGRAPHIC DIVERSITY ISSUES.
AMY, A POLITICAL CALCULATION AT
THE WHITE HOUSE FIRST.
WHAT WERE THEY LOOKING AT THAT
LED THEM TO PUT OFF ACTION.
>> A SENATE ON THE BRINK OF
FLIPPING TO REPUBLICAN CONTROL.
THEY'VE KNOWN THE ENTIRE YEAR
THE BATTLE FOR TROLL CONTROL OF
THE SENATE TAKES PLACE IN RED
STATES.
DEMOCRATS ARE DEFENDING SEVEN
STATES MITT ROMNEY WON.
THE WAY TO ENSURE THE RED STATES
KEEP ELECTING A DEMOCRAT IS TO
MAKE SURE YOU DON'T GIVE THE
REPUBLICAN BASE ANY MORE ENERGY
OR ENTHUSIASM THAN THEY HAVE.
THE PRESIDENT MAKING AN
EXECUTIVE ORDER ON IMMIGRATION
WOULD MAKE THE REPUBLICAN BASE
IN THOSE STATES INCREDIBLY
AGITATED.
THERE'S NO DOUBT THEY'D COME OUT
AND VOTE AND VOTE AGAINST THE
DEMOCRATS.
BAND THE KEY
STATES --
>> ARKANSAS, LOUISIANA, ALASKA,
THOSE ARE THE SORTS OF RED
STATES.
BUT I ALSO WANT TO NOTE ADS WERE
RUN BY REPUBLICANS ESPECIALLY IN
BLUE STATES WITH A LOW HISPANIC
POPULATION.
>> Brown: ROBERTO, DO YON
AGREE WITH THE ANALYSIS AND ALSO
THAT THE NOTION OF THE ISSUE OF
THE YOUTH MIGRATION OVER THE
SUMMER REALLY CHANGED THE
POLITICAL CALCULUS?
>> YES, I THINK IT'S VERY CLEAR
FROM THE POLLING NUMBERS AND
IT'S ALSO THE KIND OF REACTION
WE'VE SEEN BEFORE TO IMAGES OF A
BORDER THAT SEEMS TO BE OUT OF
CONTROL WHEN THERE'S A SURGE OF
UNAUTHORIZED MIGRATION.
YOU GET A REACTION OF ANXIETY,
SOMETIMES ANGER AND CERTAINLY
DISTRUST TOWARDS THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT, IN THIS CASE THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION.
POTENTIALLY, I THINK THE
PERCEPTIONS IN THE WHITE HOUSE
WERE ACCURATE, THAT THERE WAS A
NEGATIVE REACTION AND
POTENTIALLY A LARGER NEGATIVE
REACTION.
IT'S STILL A QUESTION OF WHETHER
THEY'VE RESOUPLED THAT OR --
RESOLVED THAT OR NOT BY THESE
ACTIONS.
>> Brown: AMY, THERE'S STILL
GOING TO BE AN ELECTION.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Brown: IT'S STILL VERY MUCH
AN ISSUE AND THE PRESIDENT SAID
HE WOULD WAIT TILL AFTERWARD.
>> HE CAN STILL PUT AN EXECUTIVE
ORDER RIGHT AFTER THE ELECTION.
>> Brown: HOW DOES THIS LOOK
LIKE IT MIGHT AFFECT --
>> DEMOCRATS I HAVE A 50/50
PROBLEM, REPUBLICANS HAVE A
270-VOTE PROBLEM, THE ELECTORAL
COLLEGE, AND THE PROBLEM IS
IMMIGRATION IS AN ISSUE THEY
HAVE TO RESOLVE IF THEY WANT TO
WIN THE WHOPS BACK.
SO THEY'VE GOT TO BE ABLE TO WIN
IN STATES THAT WE'RE NOT TALKING
ABOUT TODAY BUT LIKE NEVADA, WE
ARE TALKING A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
COLORADO, NEW MEXICO, OTHER
STATES WHERE IMMIGRATION IS A
VERY BIG DEAL AND ISSUE.
FOR REPUBLICANS TO WIN THE WHITE
HOUSE, THEY'VE GOT TO BE ABLE TO
HANDLE THE DEMOGRAPHIC ISSUES
THEY LOST BADLY IN THE LAST
ELECTION.
SO THEY CAN PUT THIS OFF -- THE
PRESIDENT CAN PUT THIS OFF,
REPUBLICANS CAN PUT THIS OFF,
BUT AT SOME POINT THIS IS GOING
TO HURT REPUBLICANS, MOST
LIKELY, IN THE LONG TERM UNLESS
THEY FIND A WAY TO HANDLE THIS
IN 2015.
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT ROBERTO
SURO IN THE SHORTER TERM FOR
THESE ELECTIONS FIRST IS WE'VE
HEARD A LOT OF ARRANGE FROM
LATINO GROUP.
IS THERE A POTENTIAL FOR A
BACKLASH THAT HURTS DEMOCRATS
RIGHT NOW?
>> I THINK THERE IS A POTENTIAL
FOR A BACKLASH.
IF YOU LOOK AT SOME OF THE
SOCIAL MEDIA CHATTER TODAY
PARTICULARLY AMONG THE GROUPS OF
YOUNGER ACTIVISTS, THE SO-CALLED
DREAMERS, THERE'S A LOT OF TALK
ABOUT DEMONSTRATIONS, ABOUT
DISRUPTING POLITICAL
APPEARANCES.
IT'S HAPPENED SEVERAL TIMES SO
FAR THIS YEAR AND MOSTLY WITH
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES BUT IN
SOME CASES WITH DEMOCRATIC
APPEARANCES, AND THEY WERE QUITE
AGGRESSIVE IN THE SPRING AND
EARLY SUMMER OF 2012, AND TRY TO
PUSH THE OBAMA REELECTION
CAMPAIGN TOWARDS MORE GENEROUSP.
SO THERE'S A POSSIBILITY THAT,
YOU KNOW, YOU HAVE A SMALL
NUMBER OF PEOPLE, BUT BEING LOUD
AT DEMOCRATIC EVENTS, PROTESTING
THIS, AND THERE'S ALWAYS THE
POSSIBILITY THAT IN A FEW KEY
PLACES WHERE THERE ARE
SUBSTANTIAL HISPANIC VOTERS, YOU
MIGHT GET A STAY-AT-HOME FACT
THIS TIME AROUND.
>> Brown: WHAT DO YOU THINK
ABOUT THE POTENTIAL FOR KEEPING
DOWN THE VOTE?
>> ONE ISSUE IS IN COLORADO
WHERE LATINOS HAVE BEEN VERY
IMPORTANT TO DEMOCRATS.
IT CAN HAVE AN IMPACT ON WHETHER
THE DEMOCRAT CAN HOLD THE SENATE
SEAT.
BUT IN EVERY OTHER STATES, YOU
HAVE A SMALL LATINO POPULATION
AND I DON'T THINK YOU WILL SEE A
BACKLASH IN 2014.
WHAT HAPPENS IN 2015?
DOES THE PRESIDENT ACTUALLY DO
AN EXECUTIVE ORDER WHICH THEN
REENERGIZES LATINOS ON BEHALF OF
DEMOCRATS, PUTS THE REPUBLICANS
ON THE DEFENSE, OR DO THEROOMS
SAY IN 2015 AND 2016, WE'VE GOT
TO HANDLE THE ISSUE OR ELSE
WE'VE HAVE A HARD TIME WINNING
THE WHITE HOUSE IN 2016.
>> Brown: ROBERTO SURO, WHAT
DO YOU THINK ABOUT THE LONG-TIME
POLITICS OF THE ISSUE AND THE
PROSPECTS FOR IMMIGRATION REFORM
AT THIS POINT?
>> LET ME MAKE A QUICK REMARK
ABOUT 2014.
LATINOS AREN'T THE ONLY ONES WHO
CARE ABOUT IMMIGRATION.
THERE ARE A LOT OF PROGRESSIVE
DEMOCRATS WHO WILL BE
DISAPPOINTED IN THE WAY THIS
TURNED OUT WHO ARE NOT LATINOS
AND WHO ARE KEY PARTS OF THE
OBAMA COALITION.
YOUNG PEOPLE IN PARTICULAR HAVE
BEEN VERY STRONGLY IN FAVOR OF
IMMIGRATION REFORM, AND THIS MAY
ADD TO A SENSE OF
DISAPPOINTMENT.
IN THE LONG TERM, THERE ARE A
COUPLE OF POSSIBILITIES.
IF REPUBLICANS WIN CONTROL OF
THE SENATE, THEY MAY PASS AN
IMMIGRATION REFORM MEASURE THAT
IS MUCH LESS GENEROUS THAN THE
ONE THAT WAS PASSED BY THE
SENATE LAST YEAR, AND PUT
IMMIGRATION ADVOCATES AND THE
PRESIDENT IN THE POSITION OF
TAKING SOMETHING RATHER THAN
NOTHING.
BEYOND THAT, LOOKING TOWARDS
2016, IF IT'S NOT RESOLVED, THEN
WHOEVER IS RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT
ON THE DEMOCRATIC SIDE IS GOING
TO HAVE TO DEAL WITH IT DURING
THIS ELECTION PROCESS, AND THERE
WILL BE PRESSURE FROM LATINOS
AND OTHER PRO IMMIGRATION
GROUPS, ESSENTIAL PARTS OF THE
DEMOCRATIC BASE THAT WILL PUSH
ANYBODY WHO'S RUNNING FOR THE
NOMINATION TO ADOPT STRONG
POSITIONS ON IMMIGRATION REFORM.
>> AND, ROBERT O IN A WORD, SORT
OF THE PROSPECTS FOR LARGE-SCALE
IMMIGRATION REFORM GOING
FORWARD?
THE POLITICS DON'T CHANGE THAT
MUCH DO, THEY?
>> WELL WITH, YOU MEAN IN THE
NEXT COUPLE OF YEARS?
YEAH, IT'S HARD TO IMAGINE A
SWEEPING REFORM OF THE TYPE THAT
THE PROGRESSIVES HAVE ADVOCATED
AND WAS ENACT BID THE SENATE --
ENACTED BY THE SENATE.
EXCEPT THE POSSIBILITY THE
REPUBLICANS MAY TRYTO SOMETHING,
MAY TRY TO RE-CREATE THEIR OWN
BILL AND FORCE DEMOCRATS TO SAY
YEA OR NAY TO IT.
BUT OTHERWISE IT'S HARD TO SEE
HOW COMPREHENSIVE REFORM COMES
BACK.
>> Brown: ROBERTO SURO AND AMY
WALTER, THANK YOU BOTH VERY
MUCH.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, YOU
FREQUENTLY HEAR THE ADAGE ALL
POLITICS IS LOCAL.
THAT'S PARTICULARLY TRUE IN
COLORADO WHEN IT COMES TO
FRACKING.
COMMUNITIES THERE ARE ENGAGED IN
A BATTLE WITH THE STATE TO GET
MORE CONTROL OVER OIL AND GAS
DRILLING.
ROCKY MOUNTAIN PBS's DAN BOYCE
REPORTS FROM THE TOWN OF
LONGMONT.
>> I FOUND OUT THERE WAS GOING
TO BE FRACKING ALL AROUND THE
RESERVOIR.
>> 70-YEAR-OLD GREAT GRANDMOTHER
KATE BYSING JEER IS A BUSY
WOMAN.
SHE'S BEEN FIGHTING TO PROTECT
THE TOWN SHE LOVES FROM
FRACKING, PUMPING PRESSURIZED
WATER DEEP UNDERGROUND TO
EXTRACT NATURAL ROCK AND
DRILLING FOR GAS.
>> WE DON'T HAVE FRACKING
BECAUSE TO HAVE THE BAN.
>> SHE SHOWED US THIS RESERVOIR
ON THE EDGE OF LONGMONT WHERE
COMPANIES HAVE BEEN TRYING TO
PUT IN A SERIES OF GAS WELL
WITHS.
>> THEY WILL BE FRACKING WHERE
PEOPLE PLAY.
>> SHE'S WORRIED IT WILL SOON
LOOK LIKE SO MANY OTHER PLACES
ALONG COLORADO'S FRONT RANGE
WITH DRILL TOWERS AND WELL HE
DOES CROPPING UP NEXT TO HOMES
IN IN AN UNPRECEDENTED RATE.
ACTIVISTS NORTH OF DENVER
SUCCEEDED IN KEEPING THE BOOM
AWAY FROM THEIR DOOR STEPS BY
LOBBYING AT THE LOCAL LEVEL.
THE LONGMONT CITY COUNCIL VOTED
TO RESTRICT WHERE WELLS COULD BE
BUILT A COUPLE OF YEARS AGO.
A FEW MONTHS LATER, RESIDENTS
TOOK IT A STEP FURTHER, PASSING
A BAN ON FRACKING ALTOGETHER.
THE STATE GOVERNMENT IMMEDIATELY
LAUNCHED TWO LAWSUITS AGAINST
LONGMONT FOR THI AND IT FIRED
UP A GRASSROOTS CITIZENS
MOVEMENT FOR A STATE-WIDE
INITIATIVE TO GIVE COMMUNITIES
MORE CONTROL OVER FRACKING.
PEOPLE.
>> PEOPLE ARE MOST CONCERNED
WHAT IT MEANS FOR THE QUALITY OF
LIFE.
>> JARED POLLIS DECIDED TO BANK
ROLL THE FIGHT.
>> I THINK EACH COMMUNITY WILL
DECIDE AND I THINK IN MANY
COMMUNITIES, ONE OF THE COUNTIES
NEARBY IT'S AN IMPORTANT PART OF
THEIR ECONOMY.
OTHER AREAS HAVE VOTED TO BAN
IT.
THE VOTES SHOULD BE RESPECTED.
IT'S LIKE ANY OTHER INDUSTRIAL
OPERATION, COMMUNITIES DECIDE
WHETHER THEY WANT TO INCORPORATE
IT INTO THEIR ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY OR NOT.
>> DEMOCRATS DIDN'UNIVERSITY OFR
POLITICAL SCIENCE PROFESSOR
PETER HANSEN.
>> FROM A POLITICAL STANDPOINT,
THE FRACKING ISSUES ARE GOING TO
MAKE IT DIFFICULT FOR THE
DEMOCRATS THIS FALL.
FOR SENATOR UDALL OR THE
GOVERNOR TO OPEN THEMSELVES UP
TO THE ACCUSATIONS THAT THEY
WERE SOMEHOW OPPOSED TO ENERGY
DEVELOPMENT AND JOBS IN THE
STATE WOULD HAVE BEEN
POLITICALLY QUITE DANGEROUS FOR
THEM.
>> COLORADO IS SITTING ON VAST
RESERVES OF SHALE, THEY CAN
PROVIDE HUGE AMOUNTS OF OIL AND
GAS THROUGH AN ENVIRONMENTALLY
SAFE PROCESS CALLED FRACKING.
>> BEFORE IT HIT THE BALLOT, THE
INDUSTRY WAS SPENDING MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS TO FIGHT THEM.
>> MEANS JOBS FOR COLORADO.
THE ADS SHOW DOWN OVER
MEASURERS EXPECTED TO TOTAL TENS
OF MILLIONS BREAKING STATE
RECORD.
>> EMERGENCY EXTRACTION IN OUR
ENVIRONMENT AND MANAGING THE
BALANCE CAN BE DIFFICULT BUT IS
SOMETHING WE'VE ALWAYS BEEN ABLE
TO DO IN COLORADO.
>> LAST MONTH, GOVERNOR JOHN
HICKENLOOPER ANNOUNCE ADD
COMPROMISE BETWEEN MAJOR
ENVIRONMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS AND
INDUSTRY GROUPS.
THE STATE WOULD DROP ONE OF THE
LAWSUITS AGAINST LONGMONT.
CONGRESSMAN POLIS WOULD DROP HIS
TWO BALLOT INITIATIVES.
THE OIL AND GAS INDUSTRY WOULD
DROP TWO PRO FRACKING
INITIATIVES AND A SO-CALLED BLUE
RIBBON COMMISSION WOULD BE
CRAFTED.
>> THIS WILL PUT THE MATTER IN
THE HANDS OF A GROUP OF
THOUGHTFUL COMMUNITY LEADERS,
BUSINESS REPRESENTIST AND
CITIZENS WHO CAN ADVISE THE
LEGISLATURE AND THE EXECUTIVE
BRANCH OF THE BEST PATH FORWARD.
>> Brown: SOME ARGUED THE
STATE IS BEST TO REGULAR NATE
THE OIL AND GAS INDUSTRY TO
AVOID A HODGEPODGE OF
REGULATION.
>> ALL THE RED DOTS ARE WELLS.
MATT HEADS UP THE OIL AND GAS
STATE CONSERVATION AGENCY WHICH
REGULATES THE INDUSTRY.
>> PART OF WHAT IS GOING ON IS
THESE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES ARE
EXPANDING.
WHAT WAS ONCE JUST RURAL
AGRICULTURAL LAND, SUBDIVISIONS
GET DEVELOPED.
IF TODAY THE LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
CHOSE TO SAY "NO DRILLING IN OUR
RESIDENTIAL ZONE," WHAT ABOUT
TOMORROW WHEN THE RESIDENTIAL
ZONE HAS MOVED AGAIN OUT TO
WHERE DRILLING WAS OKAY.
>> LAPOR SAYS THE GOVERNOR WAS
RIGHT TO BROKE INTEREST
COMPROMISE.
>> WOULD YOU GO SO FAR TO SAY
YOU BREATHED A SIGH OF RELIEF?
>> I THINK, YES, I DID AND I
THINK COLORADO SHOULD HAVE
BREATHED A SIGH OF RELIEF, TOO,
TO BE HONEST.
>> THE STATE IS IN MY OPINION
UNIQUELY EQUIPPED TO REGULATE
OIL AND GAS BOTH IN TERMS OF THE
EXPERTISE WE HAVE AND THE
RESOURCES AND THE LONG HISTORY
WE HAVE.
>> Reporter: THE STATE OF
COLORADO HAS BEEN A LEADER IN
REQUIRING OIL AND GAS COMPANIES
TO DISCLOSE FRACKING INFORMATION
AND CONTAIN METHANE EMISSIONS AT
THE WELLS.
THE REPRESENTATIVE POLIS DOESN'T
THINK IT'S ENOUGH.
HE WISHES THE COMPROMISE WOULD
HAVE GONE FURTHER BUT SAYS
BETTER THAN GAMBLING IN
NOVEMBER.
>> BETTER THAN ROLLING THE DICE
WITH AN INITIATIVE THAT MAY OR
MAY NOT PASS, HAVING OIL AND GAS
SPONSOR INITIATIVES ON THE
BALLOTS WHICH COULD BE A SETBACK
FOR PROTECTING THE HOME OWNERS.
IT PROVIDES A PROCESS THAT WILL
HOPEFULLY ALLOW US TO SOLVE THEE
ISSUE IN THE FUTURE.
>> Reporter: BUT THE
ANTI-FRACKING CROWD ATTACKS
POLIS FOR CAVIC TO POLITICAL
PRESSURE.
CAN YOU SUM IT UP?
>> BETRAYAL.
>> Reporter: KATE, A LIFE-LONG
DEMOCRAT, SAYS THE WHOLE THING
IS FORCING HER TO LEAD THE
PARTY.
>> A COLD DAY IN HELL BEFORE I
VOTE FOR HICKENLOOPER, NOT
SOMEONE WHO BETRAYS US TWICE.
HOW COULD I?
IT WOULD SO VIOLATE MY INTEGRITY
TO VOTE FOR THIS
THERE'S A GREEN CANDIDATE.
I'LL VOTE FOR HIM.
>> YOU FELT COMPROMISE WAS A
SUBVERSION OF --
>> THE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS, YEAH
>> Reporter: GWEN IS A
LIFE-LONG ENVIRONMENTALIST AND
COUNTY COMMISSIONER FROM THE
SOUTHWESTERN PART OF COLORADO.
SHE'S NOT ABANDONING THE PROCESS
YET.
SHE SUPPORTED THE LOCAL CONTROL
MEASURERS AND THE COMPROMISE
LEFT HER WITH MIXED EMOTIONS.
>> I HAVE DISAPPOINTMENT AND
ALSO A SENSE OF THIS BLUE RIBBON
COMMISSION COULD REALLY BE AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR NOT ONLY
COLORADO BUT OTHER STATES
DEALING WITH THIS ISSUE.
>> GOVERNOR HICKENLOOPER IS
ASKING LACKO TO CO-CHAIR THE NEW
COMMISSION CHARGED WITH
RESOLVING THE CONFLICTS OVER
LOCAL CONTROL.
SHE SAYS IT CAN'T BE IGNORED
ANYMORE.
>> THE OIL AND GAS INDUSTRY
REFUSES THIS TIME TO ADDRESS THE
PEOPLE'S CONCERNS.
THEY WILL LOSE THEIR SOCIAL
LICENSE TO OPERATE, AND THE
PEOPLE OF COLORADO WILL TAKE
MATTERS IN THEIR OWN HANDS.
IF COMMISSION FAILS OR THE
LEGISLATURE FAILS TO ENACT THE
RECOMMENDATIONS FROM THIS
COMMISSION IN 2015, I SAY GET
READY FOR 2016.
>> Reporter: IN THE MEAN TIME,
THE INDUSTRY IS CONTINUING TO
DRILL NEW WELLS IN A SERIOUS
PACE IN MANY PARTS OF THE STATE.
>> THE PEOPLE OF LONGMONT LOOK
TO YOU TONIGHT.
>> Reporter: AND THE CITIZENS
OF LONGMONT ARE CONTINUING TO
FIGHT TO KEEP THEIR FRACKING
BAN.
>> THIS BAN HAS BECOME MORE THAN
JUST A BAN ON HYDRAULIC
FRACTURING.
IT HAS BECOME A STATEMENT OF
DEMOCRACY FOR AND BY THE PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: RESIDENTS SPOKE
UP AT A RECENT CITY COUNCIL
MEETING WITH IMPASSIONED PLEAS
AFTER A DISTRICT JUDGE DECLARED
THE BAN UNCONSTITUTIONAL.
COUNCIL MEMBERS VOTED
UNANIMOUSLY TO APPEAL.
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
>> Woodruff: THE STORY WAS
PRODUCED IN COOPERATION WIN SIDE
ENERGY, A PUBLIC MEDIA
COLLABORATION FOCUSING ON
AMERICA'S ENERGY ISSUES.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
TWO DRAMATIC AND INGLORIOUS
EXITS IN THE WORLD OF
PROFESSIONAL SPORTS.
ONE A CELEBRATED PLAYER IN THE
N.F.L., THE OTHER AN N.B.A. TEAM
OWNER.
AND A WARNING: SOME OF THE
IMAGES MAY BE DISTURBING TO SOME
VIEWERS.
THE STUNNING NEWS BROKE THIS
AFTERNOON, THE BALTIMORE RAVENS
KICKED STAR RUNNING BACK RAY
RICE OFF THE TEAM.
MINUTES LATER, THE N.F.L.
SUSPENDED HIM INDEFINITELY.
THE SUDDEN TURNABOUT FOLLOWED
THE RELEASE OF THIS SECURITY
CAMERA VIDEO, BY TMZ SPORTS.
IT SHOWS RICE AND HIS THEN
FIANCEE, NOW WIFE, JANAY PALMER
ENTERING A CASINO ELEVATOR IN
ATLANTIC CITY, NEW JERSEY.
THEY ARGUE AND THEN RICE KNOCKS
PALMER DOWN, AND APPARENTLY,
OUT.
VIDEO RELEASED RIGHT AFTER THE
FEBRUARY INCIDENT SHOWED RICE
DRAGGING PALMER OUT OF THE
ELEVATOR.
HE WAS CHARGED WITH FELONY
AGGRAVATED ASSAULT, BUT AVOIDED
JAIL TIME BY ENTERING A PRETRIAL
INTERVENTION PROGRAM.
>> THAT NIGHT, YOU KNOW, I JUST
REPLAY OVER AND OVER IN MY HEAD.
YOU KNOW, THAT'S NOT ME.
MY ACTIONS WERE INEXCUSABLE AND,
YOU KNOW, THAT'S SOMETHING I
HAVE TO LIVE FOR-- HAVE TO LIVE
WITH THE REST OF MY LIFE.
THE N.F.L. INITIALLY SUSPENDED
RICE FOR TWO GAMES A PUNISHMENT
THAT DREW WIDESPREAD CRITICISM
FOR BEING TOO LENIENT.
N.F.L. COMMISSIONER ROGER
GOODELL AT FIRST DEFENDED THE
SUSPENSION.
BUT LAST MONTH HE SENT A LETTER
TO TEAM OWNERS SAYING HE DIDN'T
GET IT RIGHT.
HE SET THE FUTURE PENALTY FOR A
FIRST-TIME DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
OFFENSE AT A SIX-GAME
SUSPENSION.
BUT THAT WAS BEFORE THE NEW
VIDEO EMERGED WHICH THE LEAGUE
AND THE RAVENS SAID THEY HAD
NEVER SEEN UNTIL TODAY.
THE RICE NEWS CAME ON HEELS
OF ANOTHER SCANDAL IN THE
NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION.
ATLANTA HAWKS OWNER BRUCE
LEVENSON SAID HE PLANS TO SELL
THE TEAM BECAUSE OF RACIALLY
CHARGED REMARKS HE MADE.
HE WROTE IN AN INTERNAL E-MAIL
TWO YEARS AGO THAT WHITE MEN
MIGHT NOT BE COMFORTABLE IN AN
ARENA WITH A HIGH PERCENTAGE OF
BLACK FANS.
ABOUT FOUR MONTHS AGO, THE
N.B.A. BANNED LOS ANGELES
CLIPPERS OWNER DONALD STERLING
FOR LIFE OVER RACIST COMMENTS HE
MADE. THE TEAM WAS LATER SOLD.
WE TAKE A CLOSE LOOK AT THESE
DEVELOPMENTS WITH, CHRISTINE
BRENNAN, SPORTSWRITER AND
COLUMNIST FOR "U.S.A TODAY" AND
"ABC NEWS."
AND KEVIN BLACKISTONE, A
SPORTSWRITER AND COMMENTATOR FOR
ESPN.
HE'S ALSO A PROFESSOR OF SPORTS
JOURNALISM AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
MARYLAND.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH BACK TO THE
PROGRAM.
CHRISTINE BRENNAN, I'LL START
WITH YOU.
THE VIDEO OF RAY RICE SO
DISTURBING.
A LOT OF QUESTIONS TONIGHT ABOUT
WHETHER THE FOOTBALL LEAGUE HAS
HANDLED THIS PROPERLY.
WHAT ARE YOUR THOUGHTS?
>> JUDY, THIS IS A STUNNING TURN
OF EVENTS WHERE ALL OF A SUDDEN
RAY RICE IS GETTING READY TO
RETURN TO THE RAVENS AND NOW
HE'S GONE, A PARIAH, HISTORY,
THAT'S IT.
A GREAT E TERRIBLE
BLACK EYE FOR THE LEAGUE.
THE FACT THAT IT TOOK SO LONG TO
GET TO THIS POINT, THE FACT THAT
IT TOOK A VIDEO TO SEE THIS.
I MEAN, IN MANY WAYS, A LOT OF
US ARE ASKING TODAY, WHAT DID
YOU THINK DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
LOOKED LIKE AND WHY DID IT TAKE
THIS VIDEO TO SPUR THE LEAGUE TO
ACTION?
SO THEY'VE GOT ON THE RIGHT
PLACE, WITH SO MANY QUESTIONS,
AS YOU SAID, ABOUT HOW THEY GOT
HERE AND ALSO WHAT DOES IT MEAN
FOR OTHERS WHO HAVE BEEN ACCUSED
OF OR FOUND GUILTY OF DOMESTIC
ABUSE IN THE N.F.L. WHO ARE
STILL PLAYING AND IS IT TIME FOR
THEM TO GO AS WELL.
>> Woodruff: KEVIN
BLACKISTONE, WHAT WAS YOUR
REACTION AND WHAT DO YOU SAY
ABOUT HOW THE LEAGUE HAS HANDLED
IT?
>> SEEING THE VIDEO CONFIRMED
WHAT I THOUGHT HAPPENED IN THE
FIRST PLACE AND I DIDN'T NEED
THE SECOND VIDEO RELEASE TO
CONFIRM MY THOUGHTS ABOUT WHAT
SHOULD HAPPEN TO RAY RICE.
YOU KNOW, I THINK IT'S
INTERESTING THAT -- AND THIS IS
THE REALLY SAD COMMENTARY --
THAT EACH YEAR IN THIS COUNTRY
1.3 MILLION OR 1.4 MILLION WOMEN
ARE VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE, YET IT TAKES A
VIDEOTAPE BEFORE EVERYONE GETS
EXERCISED AND APOPLECTIC OVER
WHAT HAPPENS AND SOMETHING TO BE
DONE.
IF THERE IS ANYTHING TO BECOME
OF ALL THIS, MAYBE IT'S THAT.
THE RAVENS IN THE LAST THREE
YEARS, AT LEAST TWO PLAYERS HAVE
BEEN PENALIZED BY THE LEAGUE FOR
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE AND THEY'VE
GOTTEN A GAME OR A TWO-GAME
SUSPENSION.
AND WE KNOW THAT SINCE THE YEAR
2000, THERE HAVE BEEN AT LEAST
77 PLAYERS N THE LEAGUE WHO HAVE
BEEN PENALIZED FOR DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE.
>> Woodruff: CHRISTINE BRENNAN
STANDING BEHIND RAY RICE UP
UNTIL JUST TODAY.
HE HAD A TWO-GAME SUSPENSION.
THERE ARE QUESTIONS RAISED NOW
ABOUT THE LEAGUE, COMMISSIONER
GOODELL, HE HAS WALKED BACK THE
DECISION FOR TWO GAMES.
THEY'RE SAYING SIX-GAME
SUSPENSION FOR ANY OTHER PLAYER
FOUND GUILTY OF DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE.
IS THAT THE RIGHT APPROACH?
>> AS OF TODAY, THERE ARE NEW
RULES THAT SUPERSEDE THAT AND
THAT WAS LESS THAN TWO WEEKS
OLD.
SO IT WENT FROM TWO GAMES TO SIX
GAMES.
THE SECOND OFFENSE ACCORDING TO
NEW RULES A WEEK AND A HALF AGO
IS AT LEAST A YEAR AND EVEN
COULD BE FOR LIFE.
SO IF RAY RICE IS GONE THERE THE
LEAGUE, THAT COULD BE THE
PRECURSOR TO WHAT THIS NEW
POLICY IS.
I THINK THE BOTTOM LINE IS AND I
KNOW WHAT YOU'RE THINKING,
KEVIN, IS WE DON'T KNOW.
THIS IS UNCHARTERED TERRITORY.
IT SHOULDN'T HAVE TAKEN A VIDEO
TO GET TOYS THIS POINT BUT THE
FACT THE N.F.L. IS AT THIS POINT
IT'S A GOOD CONVERSATION,
CLEARLY, TO BE HAVING.
>> Woodruff: BUT KEVIN
BLACKISTONE, HOW DOES ONE KNOW
WHERE SOMETHING LIKE THIS IS
OACH AND TRULY CHANGE THE
MESSAGE THAT YOUNG PLAYERS ARE
HEARING?
>> I THINK BY THE FACT THAT, AS
CHRISTINE POINTED OUT EARLIER,
RAY RICE HAS BECOME A PARIAH IN
THE LEAGUE.
I TALKED TO A FRIEND OF MINE WHO
USED TO WORK AT THE GENERAL
COUNCIL OF THE N.F.L. AND ASKED
WHAT WOULD HAPPEN NOW THAT RAY
RICE WAS CUT?
HE SAID HE WOULD BE OUT OF A
JOB.
EVEN THOUGH TEAMS COULD PICK HIM
UP, TEAMS WILL BE VERY, VERY
UNLIKELY TO DO SO BECAUSE OF HIS
REPUTATION WHICH IS NOW SO, SO
TARNISHED.
REMEMBER, THIS WAS A YOUNG MAN
OUT OF RUTGERS UNIVERSITY WHO
PEOPLE SPOKE HIGHLY OF UP UNTIL
PARTICULAR INCIDENT.
SO I THINK THIS IS GOING TO HAVE
SOP REAL RIPPLE EFFECTS
THROUGHOUT COLLEGE FOOTBALL AS
YOUNG MEN TRY TO PUT THEIR LIVES
TOGETHER AND BECOME PROFESSIONAL
ATHLETES.
>> Woodruff: AND KEVIN JUST
CITED, CHRISTINE, 77 INSTANCES
OVER THE LAST PERIOD.
WHAT DOES THAT SAY ABOUT WHAT
OUR PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CULTURE
AND ESPECIALLY FOOTBALL IS
SAYING TO THESE YOUNG MEN?
>> WELL, OF COURSE, IT'S A VALID
GAME AND WOULD BE WOULD HOPE
THEY WOULD UNDERSTAND THE
VIOLENCE IS ON THE FIELD, NOT
OFF.
BUT IT'S ALSO A PROBLEM IN
SOCIETY.
IT'S NOT JUST THE N.F.L., MAJOR
LEAGUE BASEBALL, THE NBA, IT IS
OUR SOCIETY.
BUT THE 1/2 CAN NOW BE A LEADER.
I THINK THAT'S A POSITIVE
TAKEAWAY.
THE N.F.L. IS STARTING THIS
CONVERSATION FOR ALL OF US AND
ALL OF RUSS HAVING THIS TODAY
AND IT'S A BETTER THING IF WE
GET TO A BETTER PLACE.
>> Woodruff: THE OTHER NEWS WE
REPORTED, OWNER OF PLANNING
HAWKS, BRUCE LEVENSON, SAYING
HE'S SELLING THE TEAM AFTER HE
RELEASED THE REMARKS HE MADE.
THERE ARE SOME SAYING THIS IS
PERFECTLY PROBATE.
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR TWEETED ON
HOW TO ATTRACT MORE WHITE FANS.
IS THAT REASONABLE?
>
> I WON'T DO THAT.
DONALD STERLING IS A SERIAL -- I
WOULD SUGGEST A COUPLE OF
THINGS.
ONE, IF HE IS CONCERNED WHITE
BASKETBALL FANS IN ATLANTA DON'T
WANT THE ATTEND ATLANTA HAWKS
GAMES BECAUSE TO HAVE THE
PREVALENCE OF BLACK FANS AND
BLACK CHEERLEADERS AND BLACK
MUSIC THEN I THINK HE NEEDS TO
HAVE A CONVERSATION WITH THEM
AND NOT HIS MARKETING DEPARTMENT
BECAUSE THEY ARE THE PROBLEM.
THAT'S THEIR HANGUP.
THE SECOND THING I WOULD SAY IF
HE'S CONCERNED ABOUT DISPOSABLE
INCOME ON THE PART OF BLACK FANS
WHO COME TO THE GAMES, ONCE
AGAIN THAT'S A CONVERSATION TO
HAVE WITH THE BUSINESS COMMUNITY
IN ATLANTA WHICH, IF IT TRACKS
NATIONAL TRENDS, MEANS THAT THEY
PAY BLACK WORKERS LESS THAN THEY
PAY WHITE WORKERS, EVENWHEN YOU
CONTROL FOR EDUCATION.
SO THIS IS A LARGER PROBLEM THAN
JUST WHAT'S GOING ON IN W THE
ATLANTA HAWKS.
>> Woodruff: YOU JUST RAISE
ADD NUMBER OF QUESTIONS.
BUT CHRISTINE BRENNAN, WHAT DOES
THIS SAY ABOUT THE -- I MEAN, IT
MADE A NUMBER OF PEOPLE, I KNOW,
WONDER ABOUT THE ATTITUDES OF
WHITE OWNERSROSS THE BOARD
AND PEOPLE WHO ARE IN THE
BUSINESS OF PROMOTING
PROFESSIONAL BASKETBALL.
>> IN A SPORT THAT IS SO
RACIALLY DIVERSE AND INCLUSIVE
AND THIS IS WHAT WE HEAR.
ROBINSON SAID IT BEST WHEN HE
SENT THE EMAIL APOLOGIZING
SAYING HE'S THE LEADER AND
BASICALLY BLEW IT.
AS A BUSINESSMAN, THIS IS THE
21st CENTURY, OBVIOUSLY.
THE 50 TO 80-YEAR-OLD FANS WILL
BE GONE AND THE 20-YEAR-OLDS TO
30-YEAR-OLDS WILL BE AROUND A
LONG TIME.
THEY'VE GROWN UP IN A DIFFERENT
COUNTRY.
YOU HAVE TO PLAY TO THEM,
WHETHER ON ISSUE OF RACE, SEXUAL
ORIENTATION, GENDER, YOU HAVE TO
BE MUCH MORE OPEN MINDED.
>> BUT THAT WON'T HAPPEN.
>> Woodruff: IS THERE REASON
TO BELIEVE THIS IS AN ATTITUDE
THAT'S MORE WIDELY HELD AND
PREVALENT?
>> SURE, SOME HAVE SUGGESTED
THAT.
I WOULD LOANT OUT LEVENSEN --
POINT OUT LEVENSON IS PART OF
CORPORATE AMERICA AND OTHER
SPORTS ARE PART OF CORPORATE
AMERICA.
DO OTHERS BELIEVE THAT?
I WOULDN'T BE SURPRISED IF THEY
DON'T.
THE ATLANTA BRAVES PACKED UP AND
LEFT FOR THE SUBURBS TO BE
CLOSER TO THE FAN FACE.
THE COMMISSIONER OF THE NBA
SPEARED THE POLICY TO THOUSAND
LABORERS IN THE NBA WOULD DRESS
AND APPEAR BEFORE THE PUBLIC.
SO THIS HABE HAS BEEN GOING ON
IN OTHER LANGUAGE AND IN OTHER
ACTIVITIES AS WELL.
>> AND REFLECTING AND SOME OF
WHAT YOU SAID JUST QUICKLY,
CHRISTINE, SOUNDS LIKE SOME OF
THE OWNERS IN MAKING THESE
DECISIONS ARE NOT THINKING ABOUT
THE YOUNGER GENERATION.
>> NO, BUT THEY WILL HAVE TO ONE
WAY OR THE OTHER.
>> WE'LL LEAVE IT THERE,
CHRISTINE BRENNAN, KEVIN
BLACKISTONE.
WE THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> WoodruAG
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA MADE READY TO
LAY OUT A NEW STRATEGY FOR GOING
AFTER ISLAMIC STATE FORCES.
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
WARNED OF THOUSANDS MORE CASES
OF EBOLA IN LIBERIA IN THE NEXT
FEW WEEKS.
HOME DEPOT CONFIRM HACKERS
BREACHED THE ELECTRONIC PAYMENT
SYSTEMS.
CUSTOMERS THAT USED CREDIT CARDS
AND DEBITS CARDS AT ITS STORES
COULD BE AFFECTED.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, THOUGH MILLIONS OF
AMERICANS SIGNED UP FOR HEALTH
INSURANCE UNDER THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT,  MILLIONS MORE,
ESPECIALLY THOSE LIVING IN RURAL
AREAS DID NOT.
TO FILL THAT COVERAGE GAP,
STATES AND NONPROFIT GROUPS ARE
STRATEGIZING HOW BEST TO ENROLL
SOME OF THESE RESIDENTS.
READ ABOUT THAT OUTREACH, AND
WHY IT MATTERS, ON THE RUNDOWN.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, HOW THE EBOLA
OUTBREAK APPEARS TO BE SPIRALING
OUT OF CONTROL.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF, WE'LL SEE YOU
ON-LINE, AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW
EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.